Unknown Speaker  9:30  
The morning you must be very we have half an hour together and I really don't know what we'll be able to make of it. I hope we can make something because no one whatever concerns you.

Unknown Speaker  9:54  
Well, I'm right now I'm nervous, but I feel more comfortable the way you're talking in the lower voice. I don't feel like They'll be so harsh on me. But

Unknown Speaker  10:03  
I hear the tremor in your voice.

Unknown Speaker  10:08  
The main thing I want to talk to you about and I'm just newly divorced. I had gone in therapy before. And I felt comfortable when I left. And all of a sudden now, the biggest change is adjusting to my single life. And one of the things that bothered me the most is, especially men and having men to the house and how it affects the children. The biggest thing I want, the thing keeps coming to my mind I want to tell you about is I have a daughter, nine, who at one time, I felt I had a lot of emotional problems. I wish I could stop shaking. And I'm more conscious of things for 15 years, I don't want her to get upset, and I don't want to shock her. I want so bad for her to accept me. And we're really open with each other, especially about sex. And the other day, she saw a girl that was pregnant, and she asked me all about can girls get pregnant if they're single. And the conversation was fine. And I wasn't on at ease at all with her until she asked me if I'd ever made love to a man since I left her daddy and I lied to her. And ever said that it keeps coming up to my mind because I feel so guilty mind because I never lie. And I want you to trust me. And I want I almost want an answer from you. I want you to tell me if it will affect you wrong if I told her the truth? Or would

Unknown Speaker  11:28  
this concern about her and the fact that you really aren't that this open relationship that has existed between you and I feel is kind of?

Unknown Speaker  11:35  
Yes, I feel like I have to be on guard about that. Because I remember when I was a little girl, when I first found out my mother father made love it was dirty and terrible. And I didn't. I didn't want to cry anymore for a while. And I don't want to lie to me either. And I don't know.

Unknown Speaker  11:50  
I'm sure wish I could give you the answer as to which

Unknown Speaker  11:54  
side you're gonna say that.

Unknown Speaker  11:56  
Because what you really want is an answer.

Unknown Speaker  11:58  
I want to especially know if it would affect her, if I was completely honest and open with her. Or if it would affect her because I lied, I feel like it's bound to make a stream because I lied to her. She'll suspect that or she will know something's not quite right, or distract me. And also, I thought what she would about when she gets a little older. And she finds herself in such a situation, she probably wouldn't want to admit it to me because she thinks I'm so good and so sweet. And yet I'm afraid she could think I'm really a devil. And I want so bad for her to accept me. And I don't know how much I can take.

Unknown Speaker  12:32  
And really, both alternatives continue that she might think you're too good or better than you really are. Yes, she might think that you're worse than

Unknown Speaker  12:41  
not worse than I am. I don't know if she can accept me the way I I think I paint a picture that I'm all sweet and motherly. And I'm a little ashamed of my shady side.

Unknown Speaker  12:55  
That really cuts a little deeper. If she really knew you would, she said she said

Unknown Speaker  13:04  
I don't want her to turn away from me know how I feel about it. Because there are times when I feel so guilty. Like when I have a layover. I even tried to make a special setup, so that if I were ever alone with him, the children would never catch me and that sort of thing. Because I'm real leery about it. And then I also know I have these desires.

Unknown Speaker  13:27  
It is not only her problem or the relationship with her, it's in you as well. I can I accept myself as you realise that instead of sort of subterfuges is to make sure that you're not caught or something, you realise that you are acting from guilt because

Unknown Speaker  13:52  
I don't like that I would like to feel comfortable with whatever I do if I choose not to tell him the truth to feel comfortable that she can handle it. And we don't, I want to be honest. And yet, I feel there are some areas that I don't even accept.

Unknown Speaker  14:05  
If you can't accept them in yourself, how could you possibly be comfortable in telling them to hurt, right? And yet Did you say you do have these desires and you do have your feelings but that you don't feel good about?

Speaker 1  14:24  
And I

want more.

Unknown Speaker  14:31  
I want you to help me get rid of my guilt. If I can get rid of my guilt feeling about lying or going to bed with a single man any of that just so I can feel more comfortable.

Unknown Speaker  14:41  
And I guess I'd like to say no, I don't want to live to just stay in your feelings. But on the other hand, I also feel that this is the candidate a very private thing that I couldn't possibly answer for you. But I assure is anything we'll try to help you work toward your own if that makes any Since the minute

Unknown Speaker  15:03  
I appreciate you saying that you sound like you mean. But I don't know where to go. I don't begin to know where to go, I thought that I'd pretty well worked over most of my guilt. And now that this is coming up, I'm disappointed in myself. I really am. I want I like it when I feel that no matter what I do, even if it's against my own morals or my upbringing, that I can still feel good about me. And now I don't like there's a girl at work who sort of mothers me, and she just, she's, I think she thinks I'm all sweet. And I surely don't want to show my more ornery devilish side with her. I want to be sweet. And it's so hard for me to do something so new again. It's so disappointing.

Unknown Speaker  15:42  
The disappointment that here a lot of these things you've touched you break through. And now the guilt and the feeling is only a part of you is acceptable to anybody else.

Unknown Speaker  15:50  
Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  15:51  
that keeps coming out. I guess I did chips the real deep puzzle of the to feel, what the hell shall I do.

Unknown Speaker  16:08  
And you know, what I can find doctor is that everything I start to do with that impulse, it seems natural to help him or to go out on a date or something uncomfortable until I think I was affected as a child. And the minute that comes up, and I'm all haywire, like, I want to be a good mother so bad. And I feel like I have a good mother. But then there's those little exceptions. Like my guilts was working, I want to work and it's so fun having extra money, I like to work nice. The minute I think I'm not being real good to the children or giving them enough time that I start feeling guilty again, then that's what I'm, what do they call it a double bind. That's just what it feels like, I want to do this. And it feels right. But after all, I'm not being a good mother. And I want to be both more and more aware of what perfection is. Like, I want to be so perfect. Here I want to become perfect in my standards or not have that need anymore.

Unknown Speaker  16:59  
Or I guess I hear it a little differently than what she wanted us to see perfect. But it means

Unknown Speaker  17:07  
a great men are of great importance to you to be a good mother. And you want to seem to be a good mother, even if some of your actual feelings differ from does it feel like I'm saying that?

Unknown Speaker  17:21  
Really, I want to approve of me always that my actions won't let me I want to pull this. I

Unknown Speaker  17:33  
like to understand that your actions are kind of outside of you, you want to approve of you. That's what you do somehow want to approve of your site.

Unknown Speaker  17:49  
Like I feel that I could approve of myself regarding for example, my sex life. The big thing, if I really fell in love with a man and I respected him and I adored him. I don't think I feel so guilty going to bed with him. And I don't think I'd have to make up any excuses to the children because they could see my natural caring form. But when I have the physical desire, and I'll say oh, well, why not? And I want to anyway, but I feel guilty afterwards. I hate facing the kids. I don't like looking at myself, and I really enjoy it. And this is what I mean. If the circumstances would be different. I don't think I'd still feel guilty because I feel right about it. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  18:23  
I guess I hear you think if if what I was doing when I went to bed with a man was really genuine and full of love and respect and time. I wouldn't feel guilty in relation to Pam I wouldn't. I really would be comfortable about

Unknown Speaker  18:37  
and I know that sounds like I want a perfect situation. But that is how I feel. And in the meantime, I can't stop these desires. I've tried that also I tried saying okay, I don't like myself and I do that so I won't do it anymore. But then I realised the children I think why should they stop me from doing what I want and it's really not that bad.

Unknown Speaker  19:00  
And I guess I heard just saying to that isn't only that I guess I heard you're saying to that isn't only the children, you don't like it as well. It really isn't I'm sure that I know that that probably even more so than I'm aware of.

Unknown Speaker  19:18  
And I only noticed it so much when I pick it up in the children then I can also

Unknown Speaker  19:25  
somehow sometimes you can feel like blaming them for the feelings you have and why should they cut you off from a normal sex life?

Unknown Speaker  19:38  
Now a sex life I could say not no because there's something about me that says that's not very healthy to just go into sex because you feel physically attractive or something or physical need. Something about it tells me that's not quite right anyway.

Unknown Speaker  19:57  
feel really that it's times you're acting in ways that are not in accord with your own inner standards. Right. Right. But then we're also saying a minute ago that security can't help that.

Unknown Speaker  20:13  
I wished I could. And I can't know I feel like I can't control myself as well as I could have before. For a specific reason. Now I can't I just let go, and I am. There's too many things I do wrong that I have to feel guilty for. And I straight on like that. I want you very much to give me a direct answer. And I'm going to ask it and I don't expect a direct answer. But I want to know, do you feel that to me, the most important thing is to be open and honest. And if I can be open and honest with my children, do you feel that it could harm them? If for example, I could say to me, I was I felt bad lined up me. And I want to tell you the truth now. And if I tell her the truth, and she shocked at me, when she's upset that that could bother her more. I want to get rid of my guests, and that'll help me but I don't want to put them on her

Speaker 1  21:03  
neck and hurt her.

Unknown Speaker  21:05  
I guess. I'm sure this will sound basic to you. But it seems to me that perhaps the person you're not being fully honest with is you? Because I was very much struck by the fact that you were saying, if I feel all right about what I have done, but it's trying to beggar the man or what if I really feel alright about it, then I don't have any concern about what I would tell him or my relationship with.

Unknown Speaker  21:37  
Right. All right.

Unknown Speaker  21:40  
I hear what you're saying.

Unknown Speaker  21:47  
All right, then I want to work on I want to work on accepting movements. I want to work on feeling all right about it. Does that make sense? That that'll come natural, and then I won't have to worry about. But when things don't seem so wrong for me, and I have an impulse to do them? How can I accept that?

Unknown Speaker  22:09  
what you'd like to do is to feel more accepting towards yourself. When you do things that you feel are wrong.

Unknown Speaker  22:22  
You're gonna say no, why do you think they're wrong? And I have mixed feelings there to do therapy? I'll say no, look, I know this is natural women feel it should we don't talk about a lot socially, that all women feel it and it's very natural. I've had sex for the last 11 years, of course going to want it but I still think it's wrong. Unless you're really truly in love with a man. And my body doesn't seem to agree.

Speaker 1  22:46  
I don't know how to accept it.

Unknown Speaker  22:48  
Sounds like a triangle, do you feel it? I are therapists in general or other people say it's alright. It's alright. It's natural. And I guess the body sort of lines up on that side of the picture. But something in new says that I don't like not necessarily right.

Unknown Speaker  23:35  
For myself, and I feel okay, now what

Unknown Speaker  23:41  
is the conflict and it says insoluble and efforts hopeless. And here you look to me and I don't seem to give you any help.

Unknown Speaker  23:52  
Looking into for me to have to figure it out myself that I want you to guide me or show me where to start or any way I can keep living with this conflict. And I know eventually things will work out but I like feeling more comfortable with the way I live.

Unknown Speaker  24:16  
What is it you wish I would say to you?

Unknown Speaker  24:20  
I wish you would say to me to be honest, and take the risk that Pam is going to accept me.

Unknown Speaker  24:30  
And I also have a feeling if I could really risk it with PME of all people that I'd be able to see here this little kid that can accept me. And I'm really not that bad. If she really knows what a demon I am and still loves me and accepts me. It seems like it would help me to accept me more like it's really not that bad. I want you to say to go ahead and be honest. But I don't want to respond to that it would upset I

Unknown Speaker  24:57  
know very well what you'd like to do in relationship, he would like to be yourself and you'd like to have her, know that you're not perfect and do things that maybe even she wouldn't approve, to disapprove them to some degree yourself. But somehow, she would love you and accept you, as an imperfect person.

Unknown Speaker  25:19  
Wonder if your mother had been more open, maybe I would have had such a narrow attitude about sex, if I would have thought that she could be, you know, pretty, sexy and corny, and devilish, too. But I would look at it as being such a sweet mother. But she could also be the other side. But she didn't talk about that. Maybe that's where I got my picture, I don't know. But I don't want to fool with a full woman. But also

Unknown Speaker  25:43  
don't sound too uncertain. I don't even sitting there telling you just what she would like to do in that relationship.

Unknown Speaker  25:59  
I don't quite take the risk of doing it. It tells me that

Unknown Speaker  26:08  
it's an awfully risky thing to lose. taking a chance on your relationship with her taking a chance and letting her know who you are.

Unknown Speaker  26:37  
I don't take a chance. If I select an accepted buyer, I'm never gonna forget about it anyway.

Unknown Speaker  26:44  
If we're loving acceptance of you, is based on a false picture of you.

Unknown Speaker  26:56  
But I also feel there's a lot of responsibility with being a mother. With I don't, I don't want to feel like I've caused any big traumas in the children. I don't like all that responsibility. I think that's what I don't like doing. It could be my fault.

Unknown Speaker  27:11  
That's what I meant when I said life is risky. To take the responsibility for being the person you would like to be with her is a hell of a responsibility.

Unknown Speaker  27:29  
I look at it two ways. I like to see myself as being so honest with the kids. And really being proud of myself, though, that no matter what I told them, no matter how bad they think I was, I was honest. And down deep, it's going to be a much more wholesome relationship and get you know, I get jealous of like when they're with their daddy, I feel he's more. He's not quite as real. He's not quite as honest. But nevertheless, they see a sweet picture of their dad. And I'm envious of that too. I want them to see me just as sweet as they see him and yet I know he's not quite as real with him. It seems like I've got to swap them over the other. I missed some of that boy.

Unknown Speaker  28:11  
I want them to have just as nice a picture of me as their dad is a little phoney to be a little too strong.

Unknown Speaker  28:21  
That's close that is putting me if I were honest in any way, I'm likely to do more things that they disapprove of.

Unknown Speaker  28:40  
Really found it quite hard to believe that they would really love you if they knew.

Unknown Speaker  28:47  
That's right. That's exactly before therapy. If I had any way I'm likely to do more things that that disapprove. I'm

Unknown Speaker  29:05  
really quite hard to believe that they would really love you. If they knew. That's right.

Unknown Speaker  29:13  
That's exactly before therapy. I would have definitely chosen the other area. I'm going to get respect from them no matter what even if I have to lie. Right now I know that's not true. And I'm not positive they'll truly accept me. Something tells me they will I know he will but I'm not positive I'm not really sure. I keep wanting these kind of a no man's land and probably shifting from one point of view to them to another boy and sure like somebody that's ready to go ahead and do it. Yes, that's why I get encouraged when I read in a book from somebody I respect and admire that this is the right thing no matter what honesty went out well they make keeps giving me confidence by Gosh, I'm right. That

Unknown Speaker  29:54  
damn hard to really choose something

Unknown Speaker  29:56  
on their own, which makes me feel very humble. For me, I wish I was going with enough or mature enough to make my decisions and stick by them. And I need somebody to help me on somebody to push me.

Unknown Speaker  30:14  
Push yourself for that, I guess. If I Was anybody or if I was growing up, I had been through enough to decide things like this.

Unknown Speaker  30:25  
And take more risks. I wish I take more risks. I wish that I could just go ahead and be this and say, however, the children grow up, I've done my best. I didn't have to constantly have this conflict. And I'd like me to just to say no matter what you asked me kids, at least I told you the truth, you may not have liked it. But it's been a truth that somehow I can admire. I just respect people that lie. I hate it. So you see what it could have been. And I am and I hate myself if I'm bad, but I also hate myself if I lie. So it's accepting I want to become more accepting.

Unknown Speaker  30:58  
I guess, judging her tone of voice decided to hate yourself more on the live in terms of things he disappeared.

Unknown Speaker  31:08  
Because this has really bothered me, this happened with Pam about a month ago, and it keeps coming to my mind. I don't know whether to go back and talk to her about Oh, wait, she may have even forgotten what she asked me. But I have no, I have to be able to tell her that I remember lying and on fire lighting has been driving me bugs because I did

Unknown Speaker  31:34  
don't want to feel like now that solved. And I've done even solver things. But I feel relieved. I just feel like you've been saying to me giving me advice. But I feel like you're saying you really want to pan and you want to follow Korea and go ahead and follow it. I sort of backing up from you.

Unknown Speaker  31:57  
I guess the way I sense it is you've been telling me that you know what you want to do? And yes, I do believe in backing up people. And what they want to do

Unknown Speaker  32:12  
is a little different slant. I will tell you one thing that concerns me is

Unknown Speaker  32:23  
it's no damn good. You're doing something that you haven't really chosen to do. That's why I'm trying to help you find out what's your own inner choices. And

Unknown Speaker  32:37  
there's also a conflict there because I'm not really positive what I want to do the lying part yet, but I'm not positive what I want to do when I go against myself, Why can I bring a man to the house? I'm not sure I want to do that. If I feel guilty afterwards, I must not have really wanted to

Unknown Speaker  32:53  
say that you don't want it you don't like yourself. When you do something against yourself.

Unknown Speaker  33:07  
You know, this is so different. Now this kind of thing that we're talking about. Now, it isn't just knowing whether you want to do something or not. If I want to go to work in the morning, or I don't want to go to work. That's easy. But when I find myself doing something I don't feel comfortable with, I automatically say if you're not comfortable, great. It's not right, something's wrong. All right. Now what I want to ask you is, how can I know which is the strongest? Because I do it? Does that mean that the strongest. And yet if I disapprove, that's just part of the thing that's got to go along with it. It sounds like you're, I'm picking up a contradiction. I live in a falling.

Unknown Speaker  33:40  
Feeling a contradiction in yourself. What I heard you saying in part is the way you like it, is when you feel really comfortable about what you're doing.

Unknown Speaker  33:52  
And I have a times when I've made a decision. That seems right, that seems perfectly right, no conflict, but then there are times I do things that I feel uncomfortable with so that there is a conflict there. It's not the same at all. So what I'm saying is, how do I really know when I'm falling with true feelings? If I have conflicts afterwards or guilt afterwards?

Unknown Speaker  34:14  
I see. Because in the moment that may seem like your juicy,

Unknown Speaker  34:16  
yes. Like if I'm starting to do it, okay.

Unknown Speaker  34:22  
It really is. You feel comfortable in a moment about it. But then after it does feel a little comfortable. Which course of action is really the one you should have followed.

Unknown Speaker  34:36  
Anything. I don't know if you're following me when I say about this conflict. But one thing I know is I for like, for example told my husband for quite a few years. I never did it. I kept thinking how nice it would be or how scary it would be but I never did it. And all of a sudden when I did it felt right. I didn't feel mean toward him. I just knew this is what I had to do. That's what I know and following myself. I'm finally going to completely have no conflict there. Some of the happy things came from it but I still have no conflict. That to me is when I'm following my feelings. And in everyday life, the small little decisions, the smaller things to do, don't come out that clear at all. So many conflicts come when

Unknown Speaker  35:11  
it's it's natural, although you're saying it is. But, but you're saying to that, you know perfectly well a feeling within yourself, that occurs when you're really doing something

Unknown Speaker  35:23  
that's right for you.

Unknown Speaker  35:24  
I do. I do. And I missed that feeling. Other times, it's better when

Unknown Speaker  35:31  
you can really listen to yourself sometimes realise, this isn't.

Unknown Speaker  35:37  
This isn't the way I would feel if I really wanted to do that. Let me go on and do it anyway. and say, Oh, well, I'm in a situation now I'll just remember next time.

Unknown Speaker  35:50  
I mentioned this one a lot in therapy, and most therapists granted me or gig or something when I say utopia, but when I do fall off the line, and I feel this good feeling inside me, that's sort of utopia. That's what I mean. That's the way I like to feel whether it's a bad thing or a good thing that I write about.

Unknown Speaker  36:06  
In those utopian limits, you really feel kind of whole you feel all in one piece.

Unknown Speaker  36:12  
Yeah, give me a choked up feeling when you say that because I don't get that as often as I'd like. I like the whole feeling that's real precious to

Unknown Speaker  36:20  
me. None of us get it as often as we'd like. But I really do understand. Really

Unknown Speaker  36:34  
just thinking, I don't think I can talk to you and I want you to approve of me. And I respect you that I missed that my father I'd like to say to you from my father came to me

Unknown Speaker  36:57  
he looked me like a pretty nice he really missed the fact that he couldn't be

Unknown Speaker  37:16  
couldn't be open but i i want to blame it on him. I think I'm more open than he would never listen to me talk like you are.

Unknown Speaker  37:30  
I thought of this the other day, Why'd we always have to be so perfect. I'm why he always wanted me to be perfect. Always have to be better.

Unknown Speaker  37:42  
girl he wants you to be at the same time.

Unknown Speaker  37:45  
Like I was writing a letter the other day and telling him I'm a waitress which I expected disapprove of, like, wow, that night, and I was quoted hitting him back like now how do you like me? And yet I really want acceptance and love from him. I mean, I really love

Unknown Speaker  38:01  
them and say this is what I am. See? Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  38:05  
How do you like it? But you know what, I think I want them to say, this was wrong for me. And I really love you

Unknown Speaker  38:17  
a little chance to say that.

Unknown Speaker  38:23  
I went back home about two years ago really wanting to let him know I love them. Although I've been afraid of him. He doesn't hear me. He just keeps saying things like honey, you know, I love you. You know, I've always loved you and he doesn't hear

Unknown Speaker  38:40  
never really known you and loved you. And this somehow is what brings the tears in time.

Unknown Speaker  38:48  
I don't know what it is

Unknown Speaker  38:53  
never really knowing you and loved you. And this somehow brings the tears inside.

Unknown Speaker  39:02  
I don't know what it is. You don't want to talk about it. It feels more slip if I just sit still. It feels like a great big hurt down there.

Unknown Speaker  39:15  
Much easier to do a little slip. Because then you don't feel that lump inside.

Unknown Speaker  39:26  
And again, that's a situation. I tried working on it. I feel it's something you have to accept my father just isn't the type of energy like I'd like somebody more understanding and caring. He cares but not really that we can cooperate or communicate

Unknown Speaker  39:47  
permanently cheated.

Unknown Speaker  39:50  
That's why I like substitutes. Like, I like talking to you and I like men that I can respect doctors on my I keep sort of nice Underneath feeling like we're real close, you know, it's sort of like a substitute father

Unknown Speaker  40:07  
pretending to not really know about the real close business

Unknown Speaker  40:16  
we're pretending to because I can't expect you to feel very close to me, you don't know me that well.