Speaker 1  1:11  
psychotherapy is such a personal and

private process that it is a mystery to most people who have never gone through it. The following series is a unique effort that allows us to stick in on what is ordinarily a very private therapeutic experience.

And actual patient was courageous enough and considerate enough to allow herself to be photographed while actually engaged in therapy with three different therapists that we are allowed the privilege of seeing

and feeling what really transpired.

A film series like this, in which three therapists, distinguished by their different orientations, share their therapeutic endeavours has never been made before.

We therefore wish to express our gratitude to Gloria to patients and to her therapists for allowing us to share in their therapeutic adventure. This series will be divided into three separate films. In the first film, we see Dr. Carl Rogers, founder of client centred therapy, interviewing glory. In film number two, Dr. Frederick perls,

founder of Gestalt therapy,

is working with her. And in film number three, Dr. Albert Ellis,

founder of rational emotive therapy is our therapist.

Each therapist will first describe his system of therapy briefly. He will then demonstrate his work with GLORIA And then he will come and briefly on his work. Now,

Unknown Speaker  3:01  
here's Dr. Carl Rogers. From my own years of therapeutic experience, I have come to feel that if I can create the prepper climate prepper relationship, the proper conditions, a process of therapeutic movement will almost inevitably occur and my clients when asked, What is this climate? But what are these conditions? Will they exist in the interview with the woman I'm about to talk with him I have never seen before. Let me try to describe very briefly what these conditions are as I see them. First of all, one question is, can I be real in the relationship, this has come to have an increasing amount of importance to me over the years, I feel genuineness is another way of describing the quality I would like to have. I like the term congruence by which I mean, what I'm experiencing inside is present in my awareness and comes out through my communication. In a sense, when I have this quality, I'm all in one piece and the relationship. There's another word that describes it for me. I feel it in the relationship. I would like to have a transparency, I would be quite willing for my client to see all the way through me that there will be nothing, nothing hidden. And when I'm real in this session that I'm trying to describe them, I know that my own feelings will often bubble up into awareness and be expressed that be expressed in ways that won't impose themselves my client. Then the second question I would have is, will I find myself praising this person caring For this person, I certainly don't want to pretend a caring that I don't feel. In fact, if I disliked my client persistently, I feel it's better than I should express it. But I know that the process of therapy is much more likely to occur. And constructive change is much more likely. If I feel a real spontaneous uprising of this individual with whom I'm working, appraising of this person as a separate individual. You can call it quality acceptance, you can call it caring. You can call it a non possessive love, if you wish, I think any of those terms tend to describe it, and know that the relationship will prove more constructive, if it's present, then a third party will I be able to understand the inner world of this individual from from the inside, can I will I be able to see it through her eyes, will I be able to be sufficiently sensitive to move around inside the world of her feelings, so that I know what it feels like to be her. So that I can sense not only the surface meanings, but some of the meanings that lie somewhat underneath the surface. I know that if I can let myself sensitively and accurately enter into her world of experience, then change and therapeutic movement are much more likely. Well, suppose I am fortunate and that I do experience some of these attitudes in the relationship. But then, well, then a variety of things are likely to happen. Both from my clinical experience and from our research investigations, we find that if attitudes of the cert that I've described are present, in quite a number of things will happen. She'll explore some of her feelings and attitudes more deeply, she's likely to discover some hidden aspects of herself that she wasn't aware of previously. Feeling herself prized by me, it's quite possible, she'll come to praise herself more feeling that some of her meanings are understood by me, then she can more readily perhaps listen to herself, listen to what's going on, within her own experience, listen to some of the meanings she hasn't been able to catch before. And perhaps if she senses a realness in me, she'll be able to be a little more real within herself.

Unknown Speaker  7:46  
I suspect there will be a change in the manner of her expression. At least this has been my experience in other instances, from being rather remote from her experiencing remote from what's going on within her. It's possible that she'll move toward more immediacy of experiencing that, she will be able to sense and express what's going on in her in the immediate moment. From being disapproving of herself, it's quite possible she will move toward a greater degree of acceptance of herself. From somewhat of a fear of relating, she may move toward being able to relate more directly to who encountered me more directly. From construing life in somewhat rigid black and white patterns. She may move toward more tentative ways of construing her experience and of seeing the meanings in it from a locus of evaluation, which is outside of herself, it's quite possible she will move toward recognising a greater capacity within herself for making judgments and drawing conclusions. So those are the some of those are some of the changes that we have. If I have any success in creating the kind of conditions that are described initially, then we may be able to see some of these changes in this client, even though I know in advance that our contact is going to be very brief.

Unknown Speaker  9:30  
The morning you must be very we have half an hour together and I really don't know what we'll be able to make of it. I hope we can make something because no one whatever concerns you.

Unknown Speaker  9:54  
Well, I'm right now I'm nervous, but I feel more comfortable the way you're talking in the lower voice. I don't feel like They'll be so harsh on me. But

Unknown Speaker  10:03  
I hear the tremor in your voice.

Unknown Speaker  10:08  
The main thing I want to talk to you about and I'm just newly divorced. I had gone in therapy before. And I felt comfortable when I left. And all of a sudden now, the biggest change is adjusting to my single life. And one of the things that bothered me the most is, especially men and having men to the house and how it affects the children. The biggest thing I want, the thing keeps coming to my mind I want to tell you about is I have a daughter, nine, who at one time, I felt I had a lot of emotional problems. I wish I could stop shaking. And I'm more conscious of things for 15 years, I don't want her to get upset, and I don't want to shock her. I want so bad for her to accept me. And we're really open with each other, especially about sex. And the other day, she saw a girl that was pregnant, and she asked me all about can girls get pregnant if they're single. And the conversation was fine. And I wasn't on at ease at all with her until she asked me if I'd ever made love to a man since I left her daddy and I lied to her. And ever said that it keeps coming up to my mind because I feel so guilty mind because I never lie. And I want you to trust me. And I want I almost want an answer from you. I want you to tell me if it will affect you wrong if I told her the truth? Or would

Unknown Speaker  11:28  
this concern about her and the fact that you really aren't that this open relationship that has existed between you and I feel is kind of?

Unknown Speaker  11:35  
Yes, I feel like I have to be on guard about that. Because I remember when I was a little girl, when I first found out my mother father made love it was dirty and terrible. And I didn't. I didn't want to cry anymore for a while. And I don't want to lie to me either. And I don't know.

Unknown Speaker  11:50  
I'm sure wish I could give you the answer as to which

Unknown Speaker  11:54  
side you're gonna say that.

Unknown Speaker  11:56  
Because what you really want is an answer.

Unknown Speaker  11:58  
I want to especially know if it would affect her, if I was completely honest and open with her. Or if it would affect her because I lied, I feel like it's bound to make a stream because I lied to her. She'll suspect that or she will know something's not quite right, or distract me. And also, I thought what she would about when she gets a little older. And she finds herself in such a situation, she probably wouldn't want to admit it to me because she thinks I'm so good and so sweet. And yet I'm afraid she could think I'm really a devil. And I want so bad for her to accept me. And I don't know how much I can take.

Unknown Speaker  12:32  
And really, both alternatives continue that she might think you're too good or better than you really are. Yes, she might think that you're worse than

Unknown Speaker  12:41  
not worse than I am. I don't know if she can accept me the way I I think I paint a picture that I'm all sweet and motherly. And I'm a little ashamed of my shady side.

Unknown Speaker  12:55  
That really cuts a little deeper. If she really knew you would, she said she said

Unknown Speaker  13:04  
I don't want her to turn away from me know how I feel about it. Because there are times when I feel so guilty. Like when I have a layover. I even tried to make a special setup, so that if I were ever alone with him, the children would never catch me and that sort of thing. Because I'm real leery about it. And then I also know I have these desires.

Unknown Speaker  13:27  
It is not only her problem or the relationship with her, it's in you as well. I can I accept myself as you realise that instead of sort of subterfuges is to make sure that you're not caught or something, you realise that you are acting from guilt because

Unknown Speaker  13:52  
I don't like that I would like to feel comfortable with whatever I do if I choose not to tell him the truth to feel comfortable that she can handle it. And we don't, I want to be honest. And yet, I feel there are some areas that I don't even accept.

Unknown Speaker  14:05  
If you can't accept them in yourself, how could you possibly be comfortable in telling them to hurt, right? And yet Did you say you do have these desires and you do have your feelings but that you don't feel good about?

Speaker 1  14:24  
And I

want more.

Unknown Speaker  14:31  
I want you to help me get rid of my guilt. If I can get rid of my guilt feeling about lying or going to bed with a single man any of that just so I can feel more comfortable.

Unknown Speaker  14:41  
And I guess I'd like to say no, I don't want to live to just stay in your feelings. But on the other hand, I also feel that this is the candidate a very private thing that I couldn't possibly answer for you. But I assure is anything we'll try to help you work toward your own if that makes any Since the minute

Unknown Speaker  15:03  
I appreciate you saying that you sound like you mean. But I don't know where to go. I don't begin to know where to go, I thought that I'd pretty well worked over most of my guilt. And now that this is coming up, I'm disappointed in myself. I really am. I want I like it when I feel that no matter what I do, even if it's against my own morals or my upbringing, that I can still feel good about me. And now I don't like there's a girl at work who sort of mothers me, and she just, she's, I think she thinks I'm all sweet. And I surely don't want to show my more ornery devilish side with her. I want to be sweet. And it's so hard for me to do something so new again. It's so disappointing.

Unknown Speaker  15:42  
The disappointment that here a lot of these things you've touched you break through. And now the guilt and the feeling is only a part of you is acceptable to anybody else.

Unknown Speaker  15:50  
Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  15:51  
that keeps coming out. I guess I did chips the real deep puzzle of the to feel, what the hell shall I do.

Unknown Speaker  16:08  
And you know, what I can find doctor is that everything I start to do with that impulse, it seems natural to help him or to go out on a date or something uncomfortable until I think I was affected as a child. And the minute that comes up, and I'm all haywire, like, I want to be a good mother so bad. And I feel like I have a good mother. But then there's those little exceptions. Like my guilts was working, I want to work and it's so fun having extra money, I like to work nice. The minute I think I'm not being real good to the children or giving them enough time that I start feeling guilty again, then that's what I'm, what do they call it a double bind. That's just what it feels like, I want to do this. And it feels right. But after all, I'm not being a good mother. And I want to be both more and more aware of what perfection is. Like, I want to be so perfect. Here I want to become perfect in my standards or not have that need anymore.

Unknown Speaker  16:59  
Or I guess I hear it a little differently than what she wanted us to see perfect. But it means

Unknown Speaker  17:07  
a great men are of great importance to you to be a good mother. And you want to seem to be a good mother, even if some of your actual feelings differ from does it feel like I'm saying that?

Unknown Speaker  17:21  
Really, I want to approve of me always that my actions won't let me I want to pull this. I

Unknown Speaker  17:33  
like to understand that your actions are kind of outside of you, you want to approve of you. That's what you do somehow want to approve of your site.

Unknown Speaker  17:49  
Like I feel that I could approve of myself regarding for example, my sex life. The big thing, if I really fell in love with a man and I respected him and I adored him. I don't think I feel so guilty going to bed with him. And I don't think I'd have to make up any excuses to the children because they could see my natural caring form. But when I have the physical desire, and I'll say oh, well, why not? And I want to anyway, but I feel guilty afterwards. I hate facing the kids. I don't like looking at myself, and I really enjoy it. And this is what I mean. If the circumstances would be different. I don't think I'd still feel guilty because I feel right about it. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  18:23  
I guess I hear you think if if what I was doing when I went to bed with a man was really genuine and full of love and respect and time. I wouldn't feel guilty in relation to Pam I wouldn't. I really would be comfortable about

Unknown Speaker  18:37  
and I know that sounds like I want a perfect situation. But that is how I feel. And in the meantime, I can't stop these desires. I've tried that also I tried saying okay, I don't like myself and I do that so I won't do it anymore. But then I realised the children I think why should they stop me from doing what I want and it's really not that bad.

Unknown Speaker  19:00  
And I guess I heard just saying to that isn't only that I guess I heard you're saying to that isn't only the children, you don't like it as well. It really isn't I'm sure that I know that that probably even more so than I'm aware of.

Unknown Speaker  19:18  
And I only noticed it so much when I pick it up in the children then I can also

Unknown Speaker  19:25  
somehow sometimes you can feel like blaming them for the feelings you have and why should they cut you off from a normal sex life?

Unknown Speaker  19:38  
Now a sex life I could say not no because there's something about me that says that's not very healthy to just go into sex because you feel physically attractive or something or physical need. Something about it tells me that's not quite right anyway.

Unknown Speaker  19:57  
feel really that it's times you're acting in ways that are not in accord with your own inner standards. Right. Right. But then we're also saying a minute ago that security can't help that.

Unknown Speaker  20:13  
I wished I could. And I can't know I feel like I can't control myself as well as I could have before. For a specific reason. Now I can't I just let go, and I am. There's too many things I do wrong that I have to feel guilty for. And I straight on like that. I want you very much to give me a direct answer. And I'm going to ask it and I don't expect a direct answer. But I want to know, do you feel that to me, the most important thing is to be open and honest. And if I can be open and honest with my children, do you feel that it could harm them? If for example, I could say to me, I was I felt bad lined up me. And I want to tell you the truth now. And if I tell her the truth, and she shocked at me, when she's upset that that could bother her more. I want to get rid of my guests, and that'll help me but I don't want to put them on her

Speaker 1  21:03  
neck and hurt her.

Unknown Speaker  21:05  
I guess. I'm sure this will sound basic to you. But it seems to me that perhaps the person you're not being fully honest with is you? Because I was very much struck by the fact that you were saying, if I feel all right about what I have done, but it's trying to beggar the man or what if I really feel alright about it, then I don't have any concern about what I would tell him or my relationship with.

Unknown Speaker  21:37  
Right. All right.

Unknown Speaker  21:40  
I hear what you're saying.

Unknown Speaker  21:47  
All right, then I want to work on I want to work on accepting movements. I want to work on feeling all right about it. Does that make sense? That that'll come natural, and then I won't have to worry about. But when things don't seem so wrong for me, and I have an impulse to do them? How can I accept that?

Unknown Speaker  22:09  
what you'd like to do is to feel more accepting towards yourself. When you do things that you feel are wrong.

Unknown Speaker  22:22  
You're gonna say no, why do you think they're wrong? And I have mixed feelings there to do therapy? I'll say no, look, I know this is natural women feel it should we don't talk about a lot socially, that all women feel it and it's very natural. I've had sex for the last 11 years, of course going to want it but I still think it's wrong. Unless you're really truly in love with a man. And my body doesn't seem to agree.

Speaker 1  22:46  
I don't know how to accept it.

Unknown Speaker  22:48  
Sounds like a triangle, do you feel it? I are therapists in general or other people say it's alright. It's alright. It's natural. And I guess the body sort of lines up on that side of the picture. But something in new says that I don't like not necessarily right.

Unknown Speaker  23:35  
For myself, and I feel okay, now what

Unknown Speaker  23:41  
is the conflict and it says insoluble and efforts hopeless. And here you look to me and I don't seem to give you any help.

Unknown Speaker  23:52  
Looking into for me to have to figure it out myself that I want you to guide me or show me where to start or any way I can keep living with this conflict. And I know eventually things will work out but I like feeling more comfortable with the way I live.

Unknown Speaker  24:16  
What is it you wish I would say to you?

Unknown Speaker  24:20  
I wish you would say to me to be honest, and take the risk that Pam is going to accept me.

Unknown Speaker  24:30  
And I also have a feeling if I could really risk it with PME of all people that I'd be able to see here this little kid that can accept me. And I'm really not that bad. If she really knows what a demon I am and still loves me and accepts me. It seems like it would help me to accept me more like it's really not that bad. I want you to say to go ahead and be honest. But I don't want to respond to that it would upset I

Unknown Speaker  24:57  
know very well what you'd like to do in relationship, he would like to be yourself and you'd like to have her, know that you're not perfect and do things that maybe even she wouldn't approve, to disapprove them to some degree yourself. But somehow, she would love you and accept you, as an imperfect person.

Unknown Speaker  25:19  
Wonder if your mother had been more open, maybe I would have had such a narrow attitude about sex, if I would have thought that she could be, you know, pretty, sexy and corny, and devilish, too. But I would look at it as being such a sweet mother. But she could also be the other side. But she didn't talk about that. Maybe that's where I got my picture, I don't know. But I don't want to fool with a full woman. But also

Unknown Speaker  25:43  
don't sound too uncertain. I don't even sitting there telling you just what she would like to do in that relationship.

Unknown Speaker  25:59  
I don't quite take the risk of doing it. It tells me that

Unknown Speaker  26:08  
it's an awfully risky thing to lose. taking a chance on your relationship with her taking a chance and letting her know who you are.

Unknown Speaker  26:37  
I don't take a chance. If I select an accepted buyer, I'm never gonna forget about it anyway.

Unknown Speaker  26:44  
If we're loving acceptance of you, is based on a false picture of you.

Unknown Speaker  26:56  
But I also feel there's a lot of responsibility with being a mother. With I don't, I don't want to feel like I've caused any big traumas in the children. I don't like all that responsibility. I think that's what I don't like doing. It could be my fault.

Unknown Speaker  27:11  
That's what I meant when I said life is risky. To take the responsibility for being the person you would like to be with her is a hell of a responsibility.

Unknown Speaker  27:29  
I look at it two ways. I like to see myself as being so honest with the kids. And really being proud of myself, though, that no matter what I told them, no matter how bad they think I was, I was honest. And down deep, it's going to be a much more wholesome relationship and get you know, I get jealous of like when they're with their daddy, I feel he's more. He's not quite as real. He's not quite as honest. But nevertheless, they see a sweet picture of their dad. And I'm envious of that too. I want them to see me just as sweet as they see him and yet I know he's not quite as real with him. It seems like I've got to swap them over the other. I missed some of that boy.

Unknown Speaker  28:11  
I want them to have just as nice a picture of me as their dad is a little phoney to be a little too strong.

Unknown Speaker  28:21  
That's close that is putting me if I were honest in any way, I'm likely to do more things that they disapprove of.

Unknown Speaker  28:40  
Really found it quite hard to believe that they would really love you if they knew.

Unknown Speaker  28:47  
That's right. That's exactly before therapy. If I had any way I'm likely to do more things that that disapprove. I'm

Unknown Speaker  29:05  
really quite hard to believe that they would really love you. If they knew. That's right.

Unknown Speaker  29:13  
That's exactly before therapy. I would have definitely chosen the other area. I'm going to get respect from them no matter what even if I have to lie. Right now I know that's not true. And I'm not positive they'll truly accept me. Something tells me they will I know he will but I'm not positive I'm not really sure. I keep wanting these kind of a no man's land and probably shifting from one point of view to them to another boy and sure like somebody that's ready to go ahead and do it. Yes, that's why I get encouraged when I read in a book from somebody I respect and admire that this is the right thing no matter what honesty went out well they make keeps giving me confidence by Gosh, I'm right. That

Unknown Speaker  29:54  
damn hard to really choose something

Unknown Speaker  29:56  
on their own, which makes me feel very humble. For me, I wish I was going with enough or mature enough to make my decisions and stick by them. And I need somebody to help me on somebody to push me.

Unknown Speaker  30:14  
Push yourself for that, I guess. If I Was anybody or if I was growing up, I had been through enough to decide things like this.

Unknown Speaker  30:25  
And take more risks. I wish I take more risks. I wish that I could just go ahead and be this and say, however, the children grow up, I've done my best. I didn't have to constantly have this conflict. And I'd like me to just to say no matter what you asked me kids, at least I told you the truth, you may not have liked it. But it's been a truth that somehow I can admire. I just respect people that lie. I hate it. So you see what it could have been. And I am and I hate myself if I'm bad, but I also hate myself if I lie. So it's accepting I want to become more accepting.

Unknown Speaker  30:58  
I guess, judging her tone of voice decided to hate yourself more on the live in terms of things he disappeared.

Unknown Speaker  31:08  
Because this has really bothered me, this happened with Pam about a month ago, and it keeps coming to my mind. I don't know whether to go back and talk to her about Oh, wait, she may have even forgotten what she asked me. But I have no, I have to be able to tell her that I remember lying and on fire lighting has been driving me bugs because I did

Unknown Speaker  31:34  
don't want to feel like now that solved. And I've done even solver things. But I feel relieved. I just feel like you've been saying to me giving me advice. But I feel like you're saying you really want to pan and you want to follow Korea and go ahead and follow it. I sort of backing up from you.

Unknown Speaker  31:57  
I guess the way I sense it is you've been telling me that you know what you want to do? And yes, I do believe in backing up people. And what they want to do

Unknown Speaker  32:12  
is a little different slant. I will tell you one thing that concerns me is

Unknown Speaker  32:23  
it's no damn good. You're doing something that you haven't really chosen to do. That's why I'm trying to help you find out what's your own inner choices. And

Unknown Speaker  32:37  
there's also a conflict there because I'm not really positive what I want to do the lying part yet, but I'm not positive what I want to do when I go against myself, Why can I bring a man to the house? I'm not sure I want to do that. If I feel guilty afterwards, I must not have really wanted to

Unknown Speaker  32:53  
say that you don't want it you don't like yourself. When you do something against yourself.

Unknown Speaker  33:07  
You know, this is so different. Now this kind of thing that we're talking about. Now, it isn't just knowing whether you want to do something or not. If I want to go to work in the morning, or I don't want to go to work. That's easy. But when I find myself doing something I don't feel comfortable with, I automatically say if you're not comfortable, great. It's not right, something's wrong. All right. Now what I want to ask you is, how can I know which is the strongest? Because I do it? Does that mean that the strongest. And yet if I disapprove, that's just part of the thing that's got to go along with it. It sounds like you're, I'm picking up a contradiction. I live in a falling.

Unknown Speaker  33:40  
Feeling a contradiction in yourself. What I heard you saying in part is the way you like it, is when you feel really comfortable about what you're doing.

Unknown Speaker  33:52  
And I have a times when I've made a decision. That seems right, that seems perfectly right, no conflict, but then there are times I do things that I feel uncomfortable with so that there is a conflict there. It's not the same at all. So what I'm saying is, how do I really know when I'm falling with true feelings? If I have conflicts afterwards or guilt afterwards?

Unknown Speaker  34:14  
I see. Because in the moment that may seem like your juicy,

Unknown Speaker  34:16  
yes. Like if I'm starting to do it, okay.

Unknown Speaker  34:22  
It really is. You feel comfortable in a moment about it. But then after it does feel a little comfortable. Which course of action is really the one you should have followed.

Unknown Speaker  34:36  
Anything. I don't know if you're following me when I say about this conflict. But one thing I know is I for like, for example told my husband for quite a few years. I never did it. I kept thinking how nice it would be or how scary it would be but I never did it. And all of a sudden when I did it felt right. I didn't feel mean toward him. I just knew this is what I had to do. That's what I know and following myself. I'm finally going to completely have no conflict there. Some of the happy things came from it but I still have no conflict. That to me is when I'm following my feelings. And in everyday life, the small little decisions, the smaller things to do, don't come out that clear at all. So many conflicts come when

Unknown Speaker  35:11  
it's it's natural, although you're saying it is. But, but you're saying to that, you know perfectly well a feeling within yourself, that occurs when you're really doing something

Unknown Speaker  35:23  
that's right for you.

Unknown Speaker  35:24  
I do. I do. And I missed that feeling. Other times, it's better when

Unknown Speaker  35:31  
you can really listen to yourself sometimes realise, this isn't.

Unknown Speaker  35:37  
This isn't the way I would feel if I really wanted to do that. Let me go on and do it anyway. and say, Oh, well, I'm in a situation now I'll just remember next time.

Unknown Speaker  35:50  
I mentioned this one a lot in therapy, and most therapists granted me or gig or something when I say utopia, but when I do fall off the line, and I feel this good feeling inside me, that's sort of utopia. That's what I mean. That's the way I like to feel whether it's a bad thing or a good thing that I write about.

Unknown Speaker  36:06  
In those utopian limits, you really feel kind of whole you feel all in one piece.

Unknown Speaker  36:12  
Yeah, give me a choked up feeling when you say that because I don't get that as often as I'd like. I like the whole feeling that's real precious to

Unknown Speaker  36:20  
me. None of us get it as often as we'd like. But I really do understand. Really

Unknown Speaker  36:34  
just thinking, I don't think I can talk to you and I want you to approve of me. And I respect you that I missed that my father I'd like to say to you from my father came to me

Unknown Speaker  36:57  
he looked me like a pretty nice he really missed the fact that he couldn't be

Unknown Speaker  37:16  
couldn't be open but i i want to blame it on him. I think I'm more open than he would never listen to me talk like you are.

Unknown Speaker  37:30  
I thought of this the other day, Why'd we always have to be so perfect. I'm why he always wanted me to be perfect. Always have to be better.

Unknown Speaker  37:42  
girl he wants you to be at the same time.

Unknown Speaker  37:45  
Like I was writing a letter the other day and telling him I'm a waitress which I expected disapprove of, like, wow, that night, and I was quoted hitting him back like now how do you like me? And yet I really want acceptance and love from him. I mean, I really love

Unknown Speaker  38:01  
them and say this is what I am. See? Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  38:05  
How do you like it? But you know what, I think I want them to say, this was wrong for me. And I really love you

Unknown Speaker  38:17  
a little chance to say that.

Unknown Speaker  38:23  
I went back home about two years ago really wanting to let him know I love them. Although I've been afraid of him. He doesn't hear me. He just keeps saying things like honey, you know, I love you. You know, I've always loved you and he doesn't hear

Unknown Speaker  38:40  
never really known you and loved you. And this somehow is what brings the tears in time.

Unknown Speaker  38:48  
I don't know what it is

Unknown Speaker  38:53  
never really knowing you and loved you. And this somehow brings the tears inside.

Unknown Speaker  39:02  
I don't know what it is. You don't want to talk about it. It feels more slip if I just sit still. It feels like a great big hurt down there.

Unknown Speaker  39:15  
Much easier to do a little slip. Because then you don't feel that lump inside.

Unknown Speaker  39:26  
And again, that's a situation. I tried working on it. I feel it's something you have to accept my father just isn't the type of energy like I'd like somebody more understanding and caring. He cares but not really that we can cooperate or communicate

Unknown Speaker  39:47  
permanently cheated.

Unknown Speaker  39:50  
That's why I like substitutes. Like, I like talking to you and I like men that I can respect doctors on my I keep sort of nice Underneath feeling like we're real close, you know, it's sort of like a substitute father

Unknown Speaker  40:07  
pretending to not really know about the real close business

Unknown Speaker  40:16  
we're pretending to because I can't expect you to feel very close to me, you don't know me that well.

Unknown Speaker  40:23  
All I can do is what I am feeling. That is I feel close to you in this moment. Inspite of feeling initially the artificiality of the situation, particularly the hot lights, I very quickly became oblivious to the outside situation. And I think the Gloria did too. In many ways, I'm glad that she kept pushing me for an answer to her very personal questions about her sex life and her relationship to her daughter. I say I'm glad of this because as the relationship developed, it became I think, completely clear to her, as well as to me that she was seeking something a good deal deeper than that. Incidentally, I'd like to pay my tribute to her deep honesty and being willing to talk about herself so freely. Hello, every individual is entirely unique. And in this respect, I was definitely unprepared for and sometimes surprised by the material she brought up. Still, in another sense, this was very typical of my experiences in therapy, when I'm able really to let myself enter into a relationship. And I feel that this was true in this instance, then I find myself not only being increasingly moved by being in touch with the inner world of my client, but I find myself bringing out of my own inner experience statements, which seem to have no connection with what's going on. But which usually proved to be a proof to have a very significant relationship to what the client is experiencing. I felt there were one or two incidents of this kind. In this brief interview. I was genuinely moved, I probably showed it by the fact that she told me near the end of the contact that she saw me as the Father she would like to have. My reply was also a thoroughly spontaneous one, that she seemed to me like a pretty nice daughter. I guess I feel it, we're only playing with the real world of relationships. When we talk about such an experience in terms of transference and countertransference. I feel quite deeply about that, I want to say, Yes, we can put this experience into some such highly intellectualised framework, that when we do that, it completely misses the point of the very immediate eyebrow quality of the relationship at such moments. I felt that GLORIA And I really encountered each other, and that in some small but I believe lasting way, we were each of us enriched by the experience. And saying these things, almost immediately after the conclusion of the interview. And as is characteristic of me, there are no more than one or two statements or incidents which I recall from the interview. I simply know that I was very much present in the relationship that I lived it in the moment of its occurrence. And I realised that after a time, I may begin to remember it to that at the present time, I really have a very nonspecific memory of the whole interview. I've tried to look at it a little bit more from a intellectual rather than a strictly feeling point of view. GLORIA showed that I've come to feel her characteristic elements of therapeutic movement. In the first part of the interview, she was talking about her feelings, and they were past feelings. She was talking about aspects of her behaviour and of herself, as if she didn't quite own them. She was looking outside herself for a centre or locus of evaluation, some source of authority. She saw some of the things she was talking about in fairly black and white The fashion by the end of the interview, she was experiencing her feelings in the immediate moment, not only as evidenced by her tears, but by her ability to express very directly and with immediacy, her feelings toward me.

Unknown Speaker  45:21  
She was also much more aware of her ability to make her own judgments and choices. I guess, put in terms that have become somewhat commonplace, you could say that she moved from there and then of her life, to the here and now of elements that she was discovering and herself, and feelings which she was experiencing in the moment in her relationship with me.

Unknown Speaker  45:54  
All in all, I feel good about the interview. I guess I feel good about myself in the interview.

Unknown Speaker  46:02  
And like Gloria, I feel very real regret that the relationship cannot continue

Unknown Speaker  46:29  
to interview a patient. And I'd like to give you some thumbnail sketch of what Gestalt therapy stands for. every startup is working on an equation, awareness, equal present time, equal reality. Contrast to depth psychology, we tried to get hold of the ugliness of the surface, of a situation in which we find ourselves and to develop the emerging to start strictly on the Dow, he has no basis any escape into the future, or the past, is examined as an active resistance against the ongoing encounter. modern man has led up so much of his potential, but his ability to cope with his existence becomes fairly impoverished. My aim is this, the patient should recover his loss potential, he should integrate the conflicting polarities, understand the difference between game playing, especially the playing of verbal games. On the one hand, genuine, authentic, confident behaviour on the other. The Civil War of inner conflict weakens the efficiency in comfort of the patient. But every bit of integration with strength now, is a safe emergency of the therapeutic situation. In the safe emergency of the therapeutic situation, the patient begins to take risks. He transforms energies from manipulating the environment for support into developing greater greater self support, but his reliance on his own resources. This process is called maturation. Once the patient has learned to stand on its own feet, emotionally, intellectually and economically, his need for therapy will collapse. He will wake up from the nightmare of his existence. The basic technique is not to explain things to the patient, but to provide the patient with opportunities to understand and to discover himself. For this purpose, I manipulate the patient in such a way that he's confronting himself. In this process, he identifies with his loss potential, for instance, for assimilating his projections, but acting out, acting out the hidden parts of himself. Principally, I consider any interpretation to be a therapeutic mistake. As this word implies that the therapist understands the patient better than the patient himself, takes away from the patient to change of discovering himself by himself and prevents him from finding out his own values. On the other hand, at this regard most of the content of what the patient sees and concentrate most on the nonverbal level, as this is the only rich only one, which is less subject to self deception. In his verbal pseudo self expression, on the nonverbal level, the relevance always emerge in the here and now,

Unknown Speaker  50:43  
either way, I'm scared.

Unknown Speaker  50:46  
You see, you're scared, but you're smiling. I don't understand how but can be scared and smile at the same time.

Unknown Speaker  50:56  
I'm also suspicious of you. I think you understand very well, I think you know that. When I get scared, I laugh or I can't cover up. I don't know. I'm mostly aware of you. I'm afraid that I'm afraid you're gonna have such a direct attack that you're gonna get me in the corner and I'm afraid but I want you to be more on my

Unknown Speaker  51:20  
corner to project into your chips. Well, it's

Unknown Speaker  51:28  
like yeah, it's

Unknown Speaker  51:31  
like I'm afraid it would you like to go Can you describe the comic like to go to

Unknown Speaker  51:42  
the corner where I'm completely protected.

Unknown Speaker  51:46  
And we would be sick of me.

Unknown Speaker  51:51  
Well, I know I wouldn't really

Unknown Speaker  51:55  
made you in this crowd. You're perfectly safe. I just said how long would you sit?

Unknown Speaker  52:07  
I don't know. But this is so funny. As you're saying this. This reminds me of when I was a little girl every time I was afraid. I feel better sitting in the corner. Okay, you know, but it's the same feeling. Are you? Feeling reminds me of it.

Unknown Speaker  52:24  
No, no.

Unknown Speaker  52:28  
You're not afraid of the guy like

Unknown Speaker  52:39  
I don't even know if I'll be afraid of you. I get real defensive with you.

Unknown Speaker  52:45  
Know, what can I do to you?

Unknown Speaker  52:50  
Can't do anything but I can feel down and I can feel stupid for not having the right answers.

Unknown Speaker  52:54  
Now what would it do for you to be feel dumb and stupid? Stupid. What to do for you to be dumb and stupid. What would you do to me? If you would play dumb and stupid that makes you all the

Unknown Speaker  53:11  
smarter and all the higher above me then I really have to look up to you because you're so smart.

Unknown Speaker  53:16  
Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  53:21  
Know I think you can do that all by yourself.

Unknown Speaker  53:25  
I think the other way around. If you play dumb and stupid you force me to be more explicit.

Unknown Speaker  53:34  
That's been said to me before but I don't buy it.

Speaker 1  53:40  
wiggling

Unknown Speaker  53:46  
everything I do.

Unknown Speaker  53:50  
I want you to help me become more relaxed. Yes. I don't want to be so defensive with you. I don't like to feel so defensive.

Unknown Speaker  54:03  
You're acting like you're treating me as if I'm stronger than I am. And I want you to protect me more and be nicer to me.

Unknown Speaker  54:09  
Are you aware of your smile? Do you see your faded you laughing? It's funny. To the performance. I

Unknown Speaker  54:35  
very much.

Unknown Speaker  54:37  
Can you listen? Yes

Unknown Speaker  54:38  
sir. I most certainly am not being phoney. I I will admit this. It's hard for me to show my embarrassment. And I hate to be embarrassed. But boy I resent you call me a phoney? Just because I smile when I'm embarrassed or put in a corner doesn't mean I'm being a phoney. Wonderful

Unknown Speaker  54:54  
dispel for the last minute. Well, I'm

Unknown Speaker  54:57  
mad at you.

Unknown Speaker  55:00  
didn't have to cover up your investment.

Unknown Speaker  55:10  
Well, at that minute I was mad though I wasn't embarrassed

Unknown Speaker  55:13  
to mention of the phoney

Unknown Speaker  55:25  
I went to in my level, so I can pick on you just as much as you're picking on me to pick up. have to wait till you say something that I can pick on that.

Unknown Speaker  55:40  
What does this mean? Can you develop this movement?

Unknown Speaker  55:44  
I can't find words. I want to start all over again with you. I'd like to put you on. I'd like to ask you a question. And because I have a feeling you don't like me right off the bat. And I want to know if you do.

Unknown Speaker  56:06  
Can you not play Pittsburgh's not liking Gloria? Etc.

Unknown Speaker  56:12  
Let's say that she's a phoney for one.

Unknown Speaker  56:15  
So you

Unknown Speaker  56:16  
you're a phoney? And you're a little girl. And your show off? I know what I'd answer I'd say I think you are to

Unknown Speaker  56:34  
tell me what the funny guy secrets you're not quite

Unknown Speaker  56:45  
the right word. But it's more like a show off to show I can't know all the answers. And I want you to be more human. And that doesn't seem very human to me to know

Unknown Speaker  56:56  
the answers.

Unknown Speaker  56:59  
By the way, find out how I'm kicking my feet and why am I doing like this? Why are you doing like that?

Unknown Speaker  57:05  
eyes I can see you're kicking your feet. I don't need the scientific computer to see that you're kicking your feet. But speak about the need to be wise to see

Unknown Speaker  57:18  
and know but it seems like you're trying to find some reason for it.

Unknown Speaker  57:24  
Is your imagination.

Unknown Speaker  57:25  
Okay, I know what I'd like to do you can I tell you what I'd like I'd like you to be aware that I'm kicking my feet and to be aware that I'm giggling when I'm really nervous and accepted instead of putting me on the defence of having to explain it. I don't want to have to explain why I'm doing these things. ask you to explain you said Why am I or what am I doing?

Unknown Speaker  57:44  
What am I doing? kicking your feet I didn't ask you to explain it's not this is the fruits of your magenic

Unknown Speaker  58:15  
stupid

Unknown Speaker  58:17  
not playing stupid

Unknown Speaker  58:21  
This is playing stupid it's barely changed sense something my hair was you

Unknown Speaker  58:46  
know but

Unknown Speaker  58:48  
your your hair and your features go along with the feeling I had about you earlier I had a phone I could be afraid of you you're the type of person that seems like you demand so much respect and so on your

Unknown Speaker  59:02  
I demand so much respect for this fits you just so

Unknown Speaker  59:09  
you know how smart I am I know more about psychology then you do Gloria so anything I say of course is right.

Unknown Speaker  59:16  
Can you say the same as Gloria something similar as a demand to speak because

Unknown Speaker  59:33  
I don't identify it with my father but not me. I don't feel I demand respect. I'd like more I'd like you to respect me more. So yeah. All right. Yeah. Yeah. So if I could demand respect from you, I would

Unknown Speaker  59:57  
was preventing you except yourself.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:03  
can I tell if I get myself out on the corner? You're gonna let me just drown? You're not going to help me one bit and I know that I can't quite come up to standards with you.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:11  
What should I do?

Unknown Speaker  1:00:17  
encourage me to come out.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:21  
We don't have enough courage to come up by yourself. It's something to discuss. So anytime you want somebody to pay attention to call into a corner that's exactly what I liked. And this is what this is what I call phone.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:45  
Why is it for me? I'm admitting to what I am. How is that a phoney?

Unknown Speaker  1:00:48  
That is a phoney? It's a trick. It's a gimmick to call into a call and wait until somebody comes to us.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:56  
I'm admitting it. I know what I'm doing. I'm not being phoney. I'm not pretending I'm so great. That I feel like you're saying unless I come out openly and stand on my own. I'm not a phoney baloney I'm just just as real sitting in that corner as I am out here all by myself. But you're not sitting. Well not now. And besides that, it's like passing judgement when you call me Tony. I just hate that anyway.

Unknown Speaker  1:01:30  
Anybody phone? If you like somebody you want to meet this person? To go to this person? Tell him I would like to meet you. I would call not. But if you call into the call, waiting to be rescued.

Unknown Speaker  1:01:53  
And I still think you're judgmental. You know what, I have a feeling you've never felt this way in your life. You feel so secure that you don't have to feel anybody that does something like this. You're gonna pass judgement on there being a phoney?

Unknown Speaker  1:02:04  
Why are we not passing judgement?

Unknown Speaker  1:02:08  
You're sitting up there in your chair.

Unknown Speaker  1:02:11  
I pass judgement. judgement on me.

Unknown Speaker  1:02:20  
I don't feel close to you at all. I feel that Sony I feel like you're playing one big game.

Unknown Speaker  1:02:29  
Playing games, but in spite of the games, I think I touched you know, I think

Unknown Speaker  1:02:37  
you did. And I

Unknown Speaker  1:02:39  
think it's a good

Unknown Speaker  1:02:41  
feeling. I don't know. All I know is when somebody when I feel the way I feel with you right now. It's like you don't

Unknown Speaker  1:02:52  
know. Except that you just talk to me like,

Unknown Speaker  1:03:00  
I can't I want to laugh. I want to I'd like you to be younger than me. So I could really scold you. Oh, it must be

Unknown Speaker  1:03:06  
my age 30. Imagine

Unknown Speaker  1:03:11  
Okay, don't be so cocksure yourself. Don't think you're so doggone smart. Don't act so proud. Because you've never been in the corner. I think you can be just a big phoney parading around like you're so damn smart. You know, all the answers as much as me sitting in my corner. Oh, and I like the feeling of you being younger. I'd like to really I'd like to embarrass you. When you wouldn't get embarrassed, you seem unaffected.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:38  
tenba Auto aglia.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:44  
Distinguished. NET gives you a thought more on your side if you look so distinguish them as more on your side.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:52  
Can you see Swanton with credit?

Unknown Speaker  1:03:55  
No, no, no. I don't think you're fighting

Unknown Speaker  1:04:00  
with me. To come up credit. That's wonderful.

Unknown Speaker  1:04:08  
But you seem so detached. You don't even seem to care that I'm mad at you are not recognising me at all. Dr. pearls, not a bit.

Unknown Speaker  1:04:18  
This is correct. Our context is much too superficial to be involved in care. I care for you. As far as you know, my client, I cheer for you. As far as like to like an artist in something which is hidden. As far as

Unknown Speaker  1:04:45  
I'd like you to fill that there's some it's frustrating. If I were to leave you right now and not see you again. It would frustrate me to feel like there hadn't been more contact. I feel completely out of contact with you. Like I'm talking to the baby that doesn't understand me. or something like that. I don't feel like we're a bit in contact and then Ooh, that frustrates me. That bothers me more than being angry with you. I'd rather we were angry and fought to have no contact. Yeah, this reminds me of when my husband and I used to fight. He sits there and he listens to me, but he's not even aware of how much I hate him and how mad I am at him. I'd rather I'd rather affect you. You really hate me or something? I feel like you're purposely staying out of contact with me.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:32  
How should I be? Give me your fantasy. How could I share my concerns?

Unknown Speaker  1:05:41  
I can't say in words, I know the feeling is on you. But I can't say it's just a feeling like

Unknown Speaker  1:05:48  
I don't know.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:50  
Like, I want you to respect me more as a human being that I've got feelings.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:54  
Now we come back to the beginning. So you

Unknown Speaker  1:05:59  
this is a different kind of respect. And I will never

Unknown Speaker  1:06:08  
respect you so much as human beings. refuse to accept that for yourself. trust myself to the last few minutes to be a wonderful human being anymore.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:31  
I don't feel I've got a right when I don't like somebody or I disagree with somebody doing if I should respect them. If they're above me, they're superior to me. I don't feel I've got a right to really, really tell you how mad I am.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:45  
Chicken Chicken and get to your safe code.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:50  
That's what the safe corner feels like to me.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:55  
Because we have to stay in your safe column. You came out for a moment. You nearly made me angry.

Unknown Speaker  1:07:05  
I feel like you're telling me the only way you respect me as a human being if I'm aggressive and forceful and strong. I feel like you couldn't even cut my I'd be scared to death to cry in front of you. I feel like you'd laugh at me and call me a phoney. I feel like you don't accept my weak side. Only when I'm yelling back at you or hollering at you

Unknown Speaker  1:07:25  
must be crying client

Unknown Speaker  1:07:28  
satisfaction. No. I try not to I try not to cry and cry or show my weak spot for very good jump on me again. aware that I feel guilty. Yes,

Unknown Speaker  1:07:45  
I feel it. Could you choke me?

Unknown Speaker  1:07:51  
Pretend but not for real. Because I don't hate you that much. You want

Unknown Speaker  1:07:57  
to choke my kids? to choke you so you can cry?

Unknown Speaker  1:08:03  
I'd like to, I'd like to choke you it would be to make you cry. I'd like to see you we'd like to see you hurt and vulnerable. Make me feel I have more of a right to be hurt and you went jumped on me so quick.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:25  
But you jumped on me if I would cry. I would jump on you

Unknown Speaker  1:08:35  
know, I'm not sure.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:39  
What would you like me to do if you were to cry? You're smiling just like something.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:48  
Because I got two feelings. I was gonna say I want you to I want you to love me and hug me. But then I thought No, I don't want it

Unknown Speaker  1:08:57  
to be too close to you.

Unknown Speaker  1:09:01  
You want to be close to me? Don't be afraid to be too close. Now we got the two coats of exists. Two different feelings

Unknown Speaker  1:09:13  
close I mean emotionally but not physically.

Unknown Speaker  1:09:18  
Two points of existence. Either fall away in the corner or be so close that you can melt into one between the two extremes.

Unknown Speaker  1:09:40  
I do you know what I'm thinking when I am really hurt and really upset about something. And I want someone to love me like my girlfriend will do a lot. She'll come up to me. I don't I don't want

Unknown Speaker  1:09:55  
to sustain contact If you've been too close to you, and if you let her have you

Unknown Speaker  1:10:11  
the only thing I'm aware of is like when I perspire it embarrasses me that should feel how wet I am. And it should hold my body up close

Unknown Speaker  1:10:20  
to your facial

Unknown Speaker  1:10:21  
expressions of disgust

Unknown Speaker  1:10:30  
I can just feel what it is. I don't like it to say this to me. Cuz I feel like if you really believe me that was

Unknown Speaker  1:10:48  
Oh, you must not be for nothing could touch me. You suddenly discovered a way to touch me.

Unknown Speaker  1:11:03  
Well, you know what I believe? I believe you're the type of person sort of like me that you act like it wouldn't hurt your feelings, but it really would. Black strong, but you're soft and vulnerable inside there to your feelings could be hurt. Sure. But I don't think you'd show it very easy.

Unknown Speaker  1:11:26  
I would conceal my feelings

Unknown Speaker  1:11:28  
by turning it back on me. I think that now what did you get from that? GLORIA? They turn the whole thing back on me instead of showing an overachiever? No, can

Unknown Speaker  1:11:37  
you see this to put out? Did you? What did you get out of this?

Unknown Speaker  1:11:43  
What do you get out of what?

Unknown Speaker  1:11:44  
What you just see? Sure, I

Unknown Speaker  1:11:51  
know what you'd get out of it. If I said what did you get out of this pitch and say? Nothing. It didn't bother me it was you that did it. You still wouldn't let me know you were hurt. But I know what it would be if you told her true feelings that you didn't want to show your hurt. So you covered it up. Same way with me in the corner.

Unknown Speaker  1:12:08  
If I would cry, what would you do?

Unknown Speaker  1:12:14  
You wouldn't be so superior to me to be more vulnerable and I could pacify you and make you feel better.

Unknown Speaker  1:12:22  
And I could be the baby.

Unknown Speaker  1:12:27  
I'd like that. You're on my level. When you have to feel so don't you?

Unknown Speaker  1:12:33  
You would have to be my baby. She would cry. like to play the baby and become.

Unknown Speaker  1:13:06  
The demonstration was in my opinion. quite successful and consistent with my theoretical outlook. The avoidance of the genuine encounter, manifested itself in three ways. The patient was first taking control by putting on a smiling sophisticated phoney mask of facilitating between a pretence of being frightened and yet at the same time, having figured out that's being believing to be fully in control of the situation. Secondly, she was withdrawing. By synthesising of hiding in a corner. Thirdly, she was blocking the real encounter of melting through Chi, which then would have been the real emotional meaning of this meeting. The patient was capable of identifying herself with several fantasies she had projected onto me. She was this was especially evident with regard to initial in alpha need to be respected. The need for environmental support started to come out besides the need to get respect. It was mobilised in a wish to be cared for, rescued from the corner, and so on. I broke off the session, and the first tears begin to appear. She began to play the role of a lonely child and apparently wanted to be hugged and comforted. But he had to do a simulation of a projection began to work. She began to experience holding me like a baby. Apart from assisting her assimilating In some projections the main therapeutic effects of was to show the inconsistency of a verbal and nonverbal behaviour, for instance, saying that he was fighting and smiling at the same time the flighty person does not smile. Fear it was in the direction of embarrassment. This embarrassment was protected by the brazenness and anger. To get to exist, existential embarrassment, we would have to work through and eliminated the fuzziness. That is the ease with which we can superficially assume any role that is required for a specific situation. This suit adaptation is her way of coping with life. This is about what I got out of this session.

Unknown Speaker  1:16:10  
Rational therapy, or rational emotive therapy, also called RT for short, is based on several fundamental propositions or hypotheses. And the first of these is that the past is not crucial in a person's life. The past affects him a good deal, that he affects himself much more than the past affects him, because no matter what he has learned, during his historical development, the only reason why these things that have happened to him and have been told to him affect him today is because he is still re indoctrinating himself with the same philosophies of life, the same values that he usually imbibed, and taught himself to early in his childhood. So we stick largely in the present in Rational emotive psychotherapy, rather than in the past. And we believe that today the individual experiences, negative emotions, self defeating behaviour in efficiencies, because he now is indoctrinating himself with what we call simple exclamatory sentences which involve ideas. Human beings can tell themselves ideas in all kinds of languages and pictures and sign languages and nonverbal expression and math, for example, but they normally speak to themselves in Simple English if English is their native tongue. And when they talk to themselves in an irrational or an illogical way, then they create, they literally create their negative feelings or emotions and the behaviour that follows their route. Now, just to give an example, the individual usually tells himself when he's upset, first, same sentence, and then an insane sentence. The same sentence is something along the order of I don't like the thing that I've done, I dislike my own behaviour. And that would be fun. But unfortunately, he follows it with an insane sentence, which says to himself, and because I don't like my behaviour, I am allows I am worthless, I am no good Nick. And this thoroughly insane sentence which is a sentence of faith unbounded, on fact, which has no empirical reference, which is a kind of superstitious or dogmatically religious system creates what we call his anxiety and through his anxieties depression has guilt is other forms of self the features are again, the individual tells themselves the same sentence. I don't like your behaviour, when let's say somebody has acted badly with him. And instead of following that up with that, because I don't like your behaviour, I can still stand it and I'm going to try to change to get you to change your behaviour. He says, I can stand your behaviour or in an absolute cystic godlike grandiose manner, you shouldn't be the way you are because I think that I don't like the way you are. Now. The second be sentences which upset the individual, or another way of putting it as Epictetus, a Roman philosopher said many years ago, it's not what happens to us at point A that upsets us. It's be our view of what happens to us. And in Rational emotive psychotherapy, we go after this individuals a patient's view and show him that whatever he thinks has upset him, usually some external situation, but somebody else is done. It's really what he's telling himself about this thing, this event which upsets him, and although he may never be able to do anything about the external events at a, he can change the internal events, his sentences belief to himself at sea. Now in Rational emotive psychotherapy, we try to show the patient three kinds of insights in contradistinction to some other therapies, which usually emphasise one major con. The first card we try to show him is that all his behaviour especially his negative self defeating behaviour, which we're interested in, which is upsetting him, has clear cut ideological antecedents, he may have learnt these as I said before in the past, but right now, today, he must still believe these same ideologies lt would not get the negative behaviour that flows their fraud. And insight number two, which is most important than which is unfortunately neglected and many other systems and psychotherapy is that he being is this era one said a symbolising animal is continually re indoctrinating himself with these ideologies. And that's the issue. That's why he's now the third. Now, insight number three is that even when he sees clearly what he's telling himself, and that he's telling himself nonsense, only by work and practice by continually re assessing and re evaluating his own philosophic assumptions, Will he ever get back. Now, we also stress the fact that action is necessary to change an individual just talking about things, thinking about things is nice, but not necessary, I should say, it's not a necessary condition. For psychotherapeutic can change, change what the individual has to do, in addition, usually his act and we therefore give him concrete homework assignments, and get him to act these out and check up and follow to see whether he does these homework assignments. And our final goal is to get the individual to learn and learn for the rest of his life, to challenge and question his own basic value systems, his own thinking so that he really thinks for himself, he must do this, particularly when he feels miserable, he feels anxiety, or depression or guilt, or too much frustration, or anything else that is negative or when he behaves very inefficiently. And finally, he was able through this kind of new thinking rethinking his own assumptions to apply what we call the scientific method to the facets of human living, and to be truly scientific, in his behaviour to question and challenge his own assumptions as we do in science, and thereby to minimise or never entirely to eliminate the terrible anxiety and the atrocious hostility, which unfortunately, affects most of us in this existence. Well, would you like to tell me what's bothering you most?

Unknown Speaker  1:23:25  
I think the things that I'd like to talk to you the most about are adjusting to my single life. I guess, American diet, I don't know if I'm doing the wrong thing. But I'm going to refer to your book anyway. Because this is what I'm impressed with this book about the intelligent Woman's Guide to manhood, I tried to follow it. And I believe in it. This is why it's so fun reading your book, because I'm not much of a reader. But I sort of believe the same way you do. But then I've got a problem in this area of men that I do. I'm attracted to are the type of man I'd like to become closely involved with. I can't seem to meet or I get to shy with or something that I don't just doesn't click the men I seem to be dating nowadays are the ones that I don't respect much the ones I don't enjoy much blip and an interesting and I don't know if it's something about me or what because I really do want to meet this kind of man.

Unknown Speaker  1:24:20  
Well, let's talk a little about your shyness. Let's suppose you meet somebody who you consider eligible that you might want. Now let's see if we can get at the source of your shyness, just what you're telling us to create. You meet this man and feel shy embarrassed.

Unknown Speaker  1:24:37  
Yes, but I don't usually show that I usually act right back. Yeah, I act like the other minute to me as America slip. I don't see near as intelligent. I act like a typical dumb blonde. Just I'm just not myself with him and more on it as

Unknown Speaker  1:24:54  
well. As you probably know from man hunting. I believe that people only get emotions such as negative emotions and shyness, embarrassment, shame, because they tell themselves something in simple exclamatory sentences. Now let's try to find out what you're telling yourself. You're meeting this individual. Now, what do you think you're saying to yourself before you get?

Unknown Speaker  1:25:15  
I know what it is that I'm not, I don't think that his expectations, I'm not quite enough for him, he's superior to me. Although I want this type of man, I'm

Unknown Speaker  1:25:24  
afraid I won't have enough to attract him. Well, that's the first part of the sentence, that might be a true win, because maybe he could be superior to you, in some ways, maybe he wouldn't be attracted to you. But that would never upset you, if you were only saying that I think he may be prepared to be now you're adding a second sentence to that, which is, if this is, so that would be awful. Well, not quite

Unknown Speaker  1:25:45  
so extreme as that. Because I've thought about that, too. It's usually I've missed my chance again, because when I want to become if I want to show the very best of myself, because I think I have self confidence and I have enough to offer. When I get afraid like that, then I show all the bad qualities I slip on. Then I'm, I'm so much on the defensive that I can't show my good quality. And it's like I missed my chance. Again, there was a good opportunity to be close to this man, and I lost it up again.

Unknown Speaker  1:26:12  
But even let's suppose you're saying that and I think you really are. But you must be saying something else too. Because if you would just say, Hell, I missed my chance again, you'd say All right, next time, I'll take advantage of what I learned this time and do it a little better. Now you still must be saying if you feel shame, embarrassment shines is something pretty bad about your error in missing your chance again.

Unknown Speaker  1:26:36  
I don't know if this falls in contact, what you're saying. But the thing I do feel is that I get suspicious Then am I the type of woman that will only appeal to the ones that are not my type of guy anyway? Is there something wrong with me? Am I never going to find the kind of man I enjoy, I always seem to get the other ones.

Unknown Speaker  1:26:55  
Alright, now you're getting closer to what I'm talking about. Because you really think if I am this type of woman that none of these good eligible males are going to appeal to, then that would be awful. I'd never get what I want. And that would really be something

Unknown Speaker  1:27:10  
frightful. I don't like thinking of myself that way. I'm gonna put myself on a higher standard. I don't like to think that I may be just an average Jane Doe.

Unknown Speaker  1:27:18  
But let's just suppose for the sake of argument at the moment, that we're so that you were an average, Jane Doe. Now with that being said, I'm terrible. would be inconvenient. That would be unpleasant. You wouldn't want it. But would you get an emotion like shyness, embarrassment, shame out of just believing that maybe I'm going to end up like Jane Doe?

Unknown Speaker  1:27:40  
I don't know.

Unknown Speaker  1:27:41  
I don't think it could, because you still would have to be saying on some level, as I think you've just said, and it would be very bad. It would be terrible. I would be a no goodness, if I would just never get

Unknown Speaker  1:27:52  
what I want. If I were just a Jane Doe and if I'd have to accept that I've never get what I want. And I don't want to live the rest of my life with just aching man. Well, not

Unknown Speaker  1:28:01  
necessarily. So you'd never you really mean your chances would be reduced because we know some icky girls who get some splendid men that if they say you're generalising there you're saying it probably would be that I have a more difficult time. But then you're jumping to therefore, I'd never get it all catastrophising there, but you've jumped to Yes, but

Unknown Speaker  1:28:21  
it feels that way. To me at the time. It seems like forever.

Unknown Speaker  1:28:24  
That's right. But isn't that a vote of non confidence in you, and essential vote of non confidence. And the non confidence is because you're saying one, I don't want to miss out on things. I would like to get the kind of a man I want and be a in your word superior kind of girl who gets a superior kind of man. But if I don't, then I'm practically on the other side of the chain completely. And no good. Next, somebody who will never get anything that I want, which is quite an extreme away, isn't it? And that's what I call catastrophizing, taking a true statement, and there is a good deal from what you're saying. If you didn't get the kind of a man you wanted that it would be inconvenient, annoying, frustrating with it really would be and then saying I'd never possibly get what I want. And even beyond that you're really saying and then I couldn't be a happy human being Aren't you really saying? But let's just look at that. Let's just assume the worst is Bertrand Russell once said years ago, assume the worst that you never got at all for whatever the reasons may be the kind of a man you want. Look at all the other things you could do in life to be happy.

Unknown Speaker  1:29:33  
Well, I don't like the whole process. I don't even like if I'm going through it. I don't. Alright, even if it wasn't a catastrophe, even if I didn't look at it as a catastrophe. I don't like the way I'm living right now. For example, when I meet somebody that I'm interested in that could have some potential. By the way, I find I'm not near as relaxed with him. I worry more should I be friendly? Should I kiss him Goodnight, should I do this? If it's just a Joe doe and I don't give it on I can be anything I want to be. I try not to be more of a person going on. not as concerned. I don't like the way I'm

Unknown Speaker  1:30:04  
you're not, you're not really concerned, you're over concerned, you're anxious because you're just concerned, you do your best and you'd be saved yourself. If I succeed, great. If I don't succeed, right now, I won't get what I want. But you are over concerned or anxious. You're really saying, again, is what we said a moment ago. If I don't get what I want right now. I'll never get it. And that would be so awful that I've got to get it right now that causes the anxiety doesn't

Unknown Speaker  1:30:28  
Yes, or else work toward it? Yes. But if I don't get it right now, that's all right. But I want to feel like I'm working toward

Unknown Speaker  1:30:34  
it. Yes. But you want to guarantee I hear my train ears hear you saying I would like a guarantee of working towards? And there are no, sir. Well,

Unknown Speaker  1:30:43  
I don't know why I'm coming out that way. What I really mean is, I want a step toward working toward it. I don't know I thought, what what I was hoping is whatever this isn't me. Why don't seem to be attracting these coming in? Why seem on the defensive? Why seem more afraid? You could help me what it is I'm afraid

Unknown Speaker  1:31:02  
of. So I won't do it so much. Well, my hypothesis is so far that what you're afraid of is not just failing with this individual band, which is really the only thing that issue when you go out with a new and we're talking about eligible males. Now we'll rule out the ineligible one, you're not just afraid that you will miss this one, you're afraid that you will miss this one, and therefore you miss every other and therefore you prove that you are really not up to getting what you want. And wouldn't that the awful you're bringing in these catastrophes when

Unknown Speaker  1:31:33  
you sound more strong at it. But then sooner I feel like this. This is silly. If I keep this up. I'm doing there's something I'm doing that could be as real a person with these men that I'm interested in

Unknown Speaker  1:31:43  
right, you're defeating your own ends by Dennett again.

Unknown Speaker  1:31:46  
If I weren't so doggone anxious about trying to hook this guy, I could be more real, he's going to enjoy me more if I'm real anyway. So I'm only giving him the stinky part of me, right? How can anybody I respect respect to a church. And that's what

Unknown Speaker  1:31:58  
I am when I don't really come through. But look how you just devalued yourself, let's just suppose the sake of argument, you kept giving the stinky part of you, a human being another person who is trying to get interested in you might not like these attributes these characteristics of you. But I don't think he's going to despise you as a person with you are really doing,

Unknown Speaker  1:32:17  
I don't I invite around myself. And I think that's exactly the point. Like me, there's not enough to me,

Unknown Speaker  1:32:22  
right? And I say before, if people just didn't like you, and you went through enough of them, and it would be hard to go through enough that it would be possible, you'd eventually find one who did like you and whom you like, but as long as you devalue yourself personally, in your own eyes, you complicate the problem enormously and you're not focusing on how can I be myself change the trade? If you, for example, had a, let's just say, a mangled arm, and you wouldn't accept your whole person being because of this mangled arm, then you would focus so much on that mangled arm that you wouldn't be able to do things that you wouldn't otherwise be able to do? Almost what I do. Yeah, yeah, exactly. So you're taking a part of you and arm and focusing almost completely on that in just to bring it down to our own conversation, you're taking a part of you your shyness, you're not being yourself with males and focusing so much on that part, then you're almost making it the whole of you. And you get an awful picture of your total self because of this defective part. And we're assuming you and I that it is the fact that we're not glossing over and say, No, you're doing all right, you're not doing that, well. Now, you could accept yourself for the time being with this defective part with these attributes and not beat yourself over the head, as I see of you definitely in doing, then it becomes a relatively simple problem to work and practice the work and practice. Again, this negative attributes. In other words, let's get back to that now how to be yourself. let's just suppose for the moment that you really were fully accepting yourself with your failing, you know, you're going to go out, you know, you're gonna screw up with the next man, man after that in all probability, but you're saying, All right, I have to go through a learning process. That's too bad. I won't be very good during this while but I'll do it just as I would a dice skating where I'd have to fall on my neck for a few times before I learned that I escaped. Okay, now, let's suppose that, man, if that was how you were really accepting you, you go out, take the risks of being you. Because after all, if you do in one of these, then you have to be yourself. You're not winning them for a day, you're not winning them for fairness, you may want to marry one of these individuals eventually, and be with

Unknown Speaker  1:34:33  
my relationship, I don't think,

Unknown Speaker  1:34:36  
a long relationship in the course of what you couldn't. So we don't want to give you some tech thing well, that he later find out was a role playing thing. So you have to eventually be yourself. Now, if you really weren't so disturbed about these present, current failings, views, you could go out and be that self of yours. Ask yourself, what do I really want to do with this man to help Enjoy him and have him help and join me because that's the basic function of life and join us, which we tend to lose. And you force yourself to take the risk of being that. Because if you succeeded, great, if you fail too bad, either you're not for him, or he may even not be for you. Because Don't forget, you said before, when these men are rejected, you assume right away, it must be my doing, am I fault, you know, they may not be your cup of tea, and you may not be their cup of tea, and it's nobody's fault. It's just true in compatibility. Yes, you say. So if you would really accept yourself as you are, and then for yourself, you're one of my regular patients, I would give you this homework assignments, and then check up on you to see whether you can force yourself to open your big mouth and be you for a while even though it hurts. With these now, you would find that a you would start being yourself and gradually lopping off these inefficiencies, which, incidentally, are the result of not being you but watching yourself from the outside, while you're trying to be you, which is almost impossible, because you can spy on yourself and still be yourself very well, at the same time, it would become like a habit. After a while, if you took the risks and force yourself to as I said, open your big mouth. And even though you thought maybe it'll come out badly, maybe he won't like me, maybe I'll lose him completely, and so on and so forth, then you'd start swinging in the group, and being what you want to be. And I would almost guarantee that you'd become more practised and less inefficient, especially in terms of the shyness, because you wouldn't be focusing on Oh, my God, isn't this awful? How bad I am, you wouldn't be focusing on what a nice individual This is? And how can I enjoy him? Which is

Unknown Speaker  1:36:52  
the focus when you're seeing my relationship the opposite way? Right? How can I be more attractive to him? And how can he be pleased by me?

Unknown Speaker  1:36:58  
Because underneath if I am not, then I cannot enjoy myself, I refuse to accept myself unless I attract and when this good individually, isn't that what you basically Yes.

Unknown Speaker  1:37:10  
And I even go further down here I was when, when there is one of these men I come in contact with. I find that I want to call a bit more of a relationship. Well, if he accepts me, and we're going along pretty great. I find myself constantly on the defensive, constantly watching the way I see it, not drinking too much the whole time, instead of just relaxing. And being a leader like Mary

Unknown Speaker  1:37:29  
doesn't know most in psychotherapy, you're giving a very good illustration of why other directors, other directors doesn't. Because if you really are defining yourself, in terms of others estimation of you, then even when you're ahead of the game, and you're winning them, you have to be saying to yourself, Well, I went in today, well, I went in tomorrow, will I keep winning them? And you're always focused on Am I doing the things to please Him? And you never are yourself? You never have a while if you're saying what do I want to do in life, there must be some human beings who would like me the way I am, let's see if this is one of those human beings, then that's the only way is that that you can be. You see, now we haven't got too much time. So let's try to get it off on a constructive notice more concretely what you can tell us before where you can go, how you can meet new people, I'd say that, I don't know this particular area, but it's almost any place if you could do what we are talking about, really take risks, and focus on what you want out of life. And on the fact that it's going to take time, which unfortunately, it does, and it's not awful, and you are not awful while it's taking that time, then you can leave yourself open on shyly to all kinds of new encounters. And these encounters can take place on buses. While waiting for a streetcar. They have streetcars in this area at cocktail parties Anyway, you can talk to people who look eligible, you can ask your friends to get you eligible black males and so on. But the main thing is that you have to like yourself while you're not doing that, and be not be intolerant against conditions which are there. And I'm agreeing with you that they are. Now as I said, I would give you if you're a patient of mine, the homework assignment of deliberately, very deliberately going out and getting yourself into trouble. In other words, taking the most eligible males you can find at the moment and forcing yourself risking yourself to be you.

Unknown Speaker  1:39:35  
Are you saying even if it were like if I went into a doctor's office to start a conversation with him because he was attractive to me or he appealed to me, right if I go so far as to starting out a conversation with him a personal

Unknown Speaker  1:39:46  
why not if he's an eligible individual, any kind of an eligible individual?

Unknown Speaker  1:39:51  
Do you accept that but that seems awfully brazen. Well,

Unknown Speaker  1:39:54  
let's suppose it is raised. What have you got to lose? The worst you can do is reject you and you don't have to risk If you were thinking along the lines that we've been taught for five minutes Now, can you try to do that?

Unknown Speaker  1:40:07  
I think, I think so, in order to get me to go out and see, you're right, that's all I can do is be rejected.

Unknown Speaker  1:40:14  
Right? And that needs you in tact. It just leaves you Unfortunately, not for the moment getting what you want. But you try when you've already read, and I'll be very interested in finding out what happened. I'm excited about it. Now, it was certainly very nice video.

Unknown Speaker  1:40:31  
Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  1:40:38  
I enjoyed talking with this interesting and I think highly courageous patient, and thought that it gave a session gave a pretty good illustration of a fairly typical session of rational emotive psychotherapy. How is it typical in several ways, in the first place, I was able rather rapidly and quickly to get the some of what I think are the philosophic cause of the patient's disturbances to show her that the reason she is feeling shy and ashame braid in this instance, is because even though harshly unwittingly, she is defining herself in a very negative way, or devaluing herself by blaming herself too much for imperfect behaviour. Because perfectionism is the root of most human evils. And she was showing some fairly typical perfectionistic notions. So very quickly, as is usually done in Rational emotive psychotherapy, we skipped some of the asides, we skipped going back into the history of some of the psycho analysts do and we skip some of the transference relations between us and the patient. And we skipped some of the non verbal expression, not that we think these things are quite unimportant, but we think there are relatively little relevance to the basic core of the patient's disturbance, which is our philosophy of life. And typically, again, this patient showed both anxiety and low frustration tolerance, which most patients showed and these were intertwined. And again, very usually, she was then beating herself over the head, blaming herself condemning yourself for feeling these kinds of feelings. Now, she did not see very clearly at least, I thought at the beginning of the session, exactly what declarative sentences and exclamatory sentences she was telling herself to create these feelings, and I endeavoured to show her some of these sentences and what could be done about it. And among other things, I also though briefly because this is just one brief session, tried to give her a homework assignment that you could go and get her teeth into and actively try to do to de propagandise herself by going out and taking risks, which normally up to now she hasn't been taking that much. It's interesting to note that again, quite typically, in this session, although I was attacking fairly vigorously the patient's attitudes and philosophies, she did not feel an attack on her. She felt that I was supporting her if anything. And she ended up I thought, rather optimistically feeling that I had given her several ideas of what she could do in the future. Again, rather typically, in this session, I kept persuading the patient and attacking her ideas, and showing her that her philosophy of life not only was such and such, but that actually stuck to this kind of philosophy, she had to get negative and self defeating results from it. And then I kept persistently going on even though at times, she became defensive and wasn't quite accepting by any means what I was saying, I didn't let this bother me, but kept going on against her basic core system, her value system, because this is again, what bothers patients that they give up very easily on attacking their own negative evaluations of themselves, and therefore they persist forever. Now, there were limitations, of course, especially in terms of time to the session, and these limitations did have some effect. For example, it was enough, not enough time for repetition in several sessions, I would have gone over much of the same material until I was sure that had been sunk in, then I would have had time to get feedback from the patient to see whether she really understood in action in particular what I was talking about, and whether she was following it up or leading herself up some other diverting pathway which people can do. There was no time to emphasise that she would have to continually re assess her evaluations of herself and her general philosophies and do rethinking for the rest of the life. There was no time to show the patient very much that even during this session in relation to me and what she was saying about herself that she was displaying her bad attitudes toward herself. And finally, there was no occasion because this was an individual session to see how she related specifically to other non therapists that she would in group therapy, and in the midst of this group situation to show her exactly what was going on, and what she could do about it. But I do feel hope, hopeful about the session, and think that perhaps I was able to at least to give the patient a few ideas which he could then go out and work on on her own because unless patients do work themselves with the material that we therapists given them in psychotherapy, nothing eventually happens. It isn't any magic that we have for them, but we can give them certain catalytic ideas and influences which then if they work in practice at work and practice that will do them good for the rest of their lives.

